Newsletters: add 337 (2025-01-17) (#2129)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2025-01-17-newsletter.md

  pool about 10 BTC.  However, if the pool does mine that block and,
  when they do mine a block, fees are back down to a fraction of the
  block reward, the pool might only have 3 BTC total to split between
  all of its miners, forcing it to pay from its reserves.  If that
  happens too many times, the pool's reserves will be exhausted and it
  will go out of business.  Pools address this in various ways,
  including using various [proxies for actual fees][news304 fpps proxy].

  Developer vnprc [described][vnprc ehash] the solution he's been
  [building][hashpool] that focuses on ecash shares received in the
  PPLNS payout scheme.  He thinks this could be especially useful for
  launching new pools: right now, the first miner to join a pool suffers
  the same high variance as solo mining, so typically the only people
  who can start a pool are existing large miners or those willing to
  rent significant hashrate.  However, with PPLNS ecash shares, vnprc
  thinks a pool could launch as a client of a larger pool, so even the
  first miner to join the new pool would receive lower variance than
  solo mining.  The intermediate pool could then sell the ecash shares

>   it earns in order to finance whatever payout scheme it chooses to pay

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  it earns to finance whatever payout scheme it chooses to pay
```

>   its individual miners.  Once the intermediate pool acquired a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  its miners.  Once the intermediate pool acquired a
```

  significant amount of hashrate, it would also have leverage for
  negotiating with larger pools about creating alternative block
  templates that suit its miners.

- **Offchain DLCs:** developer conduition [posted][conduition offchain]

>   to the DLC-dev mailing list about a contract protocol that allows a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to the DLC-dev mailing list about a contract protocol that allows an
```

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #337'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2025/01/17/
name: 2025-01-17-newsletter
slug: 2025-01-17-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME:harding

## News

- **Continued discussion about rewarding pool miners with ecash:**
  [discussion][ecash tides] continued since our [previous
  summary][news304 ecashtides] of a Delving Bitcoin thread about paying
  [pool miners][topic pooled mining] with ecash for each share they
  submitted.  Previously, Matt Corallo [asked][corallo whyecash] why a

>   pool would implement the extra code and accounting to handle ecash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  pool would implement the extra code and accounting to handle tradable ecash
```

Adds a bit of context regarding Matt's question.

  and balance bounds are updated instead of creating a new channel.

- [Rust Bitcoin #3792][] adds support for [BIP324][]’s [v2 P2P transport][topic
  v2 P2P transport] to allow Bitcoin nodes to communicate with each other over
  encrypted connections (see Newsletter [#306][news306 v2]). This is achieved by
  adding a `V2NetworkMessage` method, which wraps a `NetworkMessage` method and
  handles v2 encoding and decoding.

- [BDK #1789][] updates the default transaction version from 1 to 2 to improve
  wallet privacy since prior to this, BDK wallets were more identifiable due to
  only 15% of the network using version 1. In addition, version 2 is required
  for a future implementation of [BIP326][]’s nSequence-based [anti fee
  sniping][topic fee sniping] mechanism for [taproot][topic taproot]
  transactions.

- [BIPs #1687][] merges [BIP375][] to specify sending [silent payments][topic
  silent payments] using [PSBTs][topic psbt]. If there are multiple independent
  signers, a DLEQ proof is required to allow all signers to prove to co-signers
  that their signature is valid and doesn’t risk losing funds, without revealing

>   their private key (see Newsletter [#335][news335 dleq]).

Reviewer 3: In addition to news335 could also reference pod327  https://bitcoinops.org/en/podcast/2024/11/05/#draft-bip-for-dleq-proofs where we had Andrew Toth on to explain

  them on an open market (without disclosing to the pool or any third
  party anything about their identity, not even any ephemeral identity
  they used when mining).

  Caseria also noted that existing mining pools find it financially
  challenging to support the _full paid per share_ ([FPPS][topic fpps])
  scheme where a miner is paid proportional to the entire block reward
  (subsidy plus transaction fees) when they create a share.  He didn't
  elaborate, but we understand the problem to be variance in fees
  forcing pools to keep large reserves.  For example, if a pool miner
  controls 1% of hashrate and creates shares on a template with about
  1,000 BTC in fees and 3 BTC in subsidy, they would be owed by their
  pool about 10 BTC.  However, if the pool does mine that block and,
  when they do mine a block, fees are back down to a fraction of the
  block reward, the pool might only have 3 BTC total to split between
  all of its miners, forcing it to pay from its reserves.  If that
  happens too many times, the pool's reserves will be exhausted and it
  will go out of business.  Pools address this in various ways,

>   including using various [proxies for actual fees][news304 fpps proxy].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  including using [proxies for actual fees][news304 fpps proxy].
```
Probably don't want to use "various" twice so close together in the same sentence; I don't think the second one is needed.

  [building][hashpool] that focuses on ecash shares received in the
  PPLNS payout scheme.  He thinks this could be especially useful for
  launching new pools: right now, the first miner to join a pool suffers
  the same high variance as solo mining, so typically the only people
  who can start a pool are existing large miners or those willing to
  rent significant hashrate.  However, with PPLNS ecash shares, vnprc
  thinks a pool could launch as a client of a larger pool, so even the
  first miner to join the new pool would receive lower variance than
  solo mining.  The intermediate pool could then sell the ecash shares
  it earns to finance whatever payout scheme it chooses to pay
  its miners.  Once the intermediate pool acquired a
  significant amount of hashrate, it would also have leverage for
  negotiating with larger pools about creating alternative block
  templates that suit its miners.

- **Offchain DLCs:** developer conduition [posted][conduition offchain]
  to the DLC-dev mailing list about a contract protocol that allows an
  offchain spend of the funding transaction signed by both parties to
  create multiple [DLCs][topic dlc].  After the offchain DLC has settled

>   (e.g., all required oracle signatures have been obtained), a new
>   offchain spend can be signed by both parties to reallocate funds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  (e.g., all required oracle signatures have been obtained), both parties can sign a new
  offchain spend to reallocate funds
```
I'm not very much against passive voice (I know it's common in technical writing), but just before this, we have "been obtained."

Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo],
[Lightning BLIPs][blips repo], [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition
repo], and [BINANAs][binana repo]._

- [Eclair #2936][] introduces a 12-block delay before marking a channel as
  closed after its funding output has been spent to allow for the propagation of
  a [splice][topic splicing] update (see Newsletter [#214][news214 splicing]).
  Spent channels are temporarily tracked in a new `spentChannels` map, where
  they are either removed after 12 blocks or updated as spliced channels. When a
  splice occurs, the parent channel's short channel identifier (SCID), capacity,
  and balance bounds are updated instead of creating a new channel.

- [Rust Bitcoin #3792][] adds ability to encode and decode [BIP324][]’s [v2 P2P
  transport][topic v2 P2P transport] messages (see Newsletter [#306][news306 v2]).
  This is achieved by adding a `V2NetworkMessage` struct, which wraps the original
  `NetworkMessage` enum and provides v2 encoding and decoding.

- [BDK #1789][] updates the default transaction version from 1 to 2 to improve

>   wallet privacy since prior to this, BDK wallets were more identifiable due to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  wallet privacy since, before this, BDK wallets were more identifiable due to
```
Or maybe "since previously, BDK wallets..." (I can't decide which I prefer)

  only 15% of the network using version 1. In addition, version 2 is required
  for a future implementation of [BIP326][]’s nSequence-based [anti fee
  sniping][topic fee sniping] mechanism for [taproot][topic taproot]
  transactions.

- [BIPs #1687][] merges [BIP375][] to specify sending [silent payments][topic
  silent payments] using [PSBTs][topic psbt]. If there are multiple independent
  signers, a [DLEQ][topic dleq] proof is required to allow all signers to prove to co-signers
  that their signature doesn’t misspend funds, without revealing
  their private key (see [Newsletter #335][news335 dleq] and [Recap
  #327][recap327 dleq]).

- [BIPs #1396][] updates [BIP78][]’s [payjoin][topic payjoin] specification to
  align with [BIP174][]’s [PSBT][topic psbt] specification, resolving a previous
  conflict. In BIP78, a receiver previously deleted UTXO data after completing

>   its inputs, even if the sender needed the data. With this update, UTXO data is
>   now retained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  its inputs, even if the sender needed the data. With this update, UTXO data will
  be retained.
```

  shares when they could simply pay miners using a normal ecash mint (or
  via LN).  David Caseria [replied][caseria pplns] that in some _pay per
  last N shares_ ([PPLNS][topic pplns]) schemes, such as
  [TIDES][recap291 tides], a miner might need to wait for the pool to
  find several blocks, which might take days or weeks for a small pool.
  Instead of waiting, a miner with ecash shares could immediately sell
  them on an open market (without disclosing to the pool or any third
  party anything about their identity, not even any ephemeral identity
  they used when mining).

  Caseria also noted that existing mining pools find it financially
  challenging to support the _full paid per share_ ([FPPS][topic fpps])
  scheme where a miner is paid proportional to the entire block reward
  (subsidy plus transaction fees) when they create a share.  He didn't
  elaborate, but we understand the problem to be variance in fees
  forcing pools to keep large reserves.  For example, if a pool miner
  controls 1% of hashrate and creates shares on a template with about
  1,000 BTC in fees and 3 BTC in subsidy, they would be owed by their

>   pool about 10 BTC.  However, if the pool does mine that block and,
>   when they do mine a block, fees are back down to a fraction of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  pool about 10 BTC.  However, if the pool does mine a block and,
  when they do mine it, fees are back down to a fraction of the
```

This sentence is a bit confusing. As I understand it, “that block” refers to the block with 1000 BTC fees. But then the fees would not be down if the pool mines the same block, right? Shouldn't the pool mine some other block for this sentence to make sense?

Reviewer: I found this confusing too; if I understand correctly, the problem occurs when fees are high for a significant amount of time (so that miners' shares are for high-reward templates), but then when the pool finds a block, fees are much lower. If that's correct, maybe:

> If, however, fees drop to a fraction of the block reward just before the pool finds a block, the pool might have only 3 BTC to split among its miners, forcing ...

  building LN-enabled wallets and applications.

<!-- FIXME:harding to update Thursday -->

## Notable code and documentation changes

_Notable recent changes in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo],
[Lightning BLIPs][blips repo], [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition
repo], and [BINANAs][binana repo]._

- [Eclair #2936][] introduces a 12-block delay before marking a channel as
  closed after its funding output has been spent to allow for the propagation of
  a [splice][topic splicing] update (see Newsletter [#214][news214 splicing]).
  Spent channels are temporarily tracked in a new `spentChannels` map, where
  they are either removed after 12 blocks or updated as spliced channels. When a
  splice occurs, the parent channel's short channel identifier (SCID), capacity,
  and balance bounds are updated instead of creating a new channel.

> - [Rust Bitcoin #3792][] adds support for [BIP324][]’s [v2 P2P transport][topic
>   v2 P2P transport] to allow Bitcoin nodes to communicate with each other over
>   encrypted connections (see Newsletter [#306][news306 v2]). This is achieved by
>   adding a `V2NetworkMessage` method, which wraps a `NetworkMessage` method and
>   handles v2 encoding and decoding.

Reviewer 2: I apologize for late review but I think this is not accurate. The PR adds only ability to understand (encode and decode) V2 P2P messages. It does not do anything above it, like encryption.

```suggestion
- [Rust Bitcoin #3792][] adds ability to encode and decode [BIP324][]’s [v2 P2P
  transport][topic v2 P2P transport] messages (see Newsletter [#306][news306 v2]).
  This is achieved by adding a `V2NetworkMessage` struct, which wraps the original
  `NetworkMessage` enum and provides v2 encoding and decoding.
```

Author: Thanks for catching!

  it earns to finance whatever payout scheme it chooses to pay
  its miners.  Once the intermediate pool acquired a
  significant amount of hashrate, it would also have leverage for
  negotiating with larger pools about creating alternative block
  templates that suit its miners.

- **Offchain DLCs:** developer conduition [posted][conduition offchain]
  to the DLC-dev mailing list about a contract protocol that allows an
  offchain spend of the funding transaction signed by both parties to
  create multiple [DLCs][topic dlc].  After the offchain DLC has settled
  (e.g., all required oracle signatures have been obtained), a new
  offchain spend can be signed by both parties to reallocate funds
  according to the contract resolution.  A third alternative spend can
  then allocate the funds to new DLCs.

  Replies by Kulpreet Singh and Philipp Hoenisch linked to previous
  research and development of this basic idea, including approaches that
  allow the same pool of funds to be used for both offchain DLCs and
  LN (see Newsletters [#174][news174 dlc-ln] and [#260][news260 dlc]).
  A [reply][conduition offchain2] from conduition described his

>   proposal's major difference from previous proposals.

Author: Note that our summary doesn't go into any detail about what the major difference is.  I tried for over half an hour to understand it, and maybe I kinda got a glimmer of it, but I don't feel confident enough to try to summarize it at this late moment.  We'll have to trust that anyone who wants to learn more will follow the link.

  only 15% of the network using version 1. In addition, version 2 is required
  for a future implementation of [BIP326][]’s nSequence-based [anti fee
  sniping][topic fee sniping] mechanism for [taproot][topic taproot]
  transactions.

- [BIPs #1687][] merges [BIP375][] to specify sending [silent payments][topic
  silent payments] using [PSBTs][topic psbt]. If there are multiple independent
  signers, a [DLEQ][topic dleq] proof is required to allow all signers to prove to co-signers
  that their signature doesn’t misspend funds, without revealing
  their private key (see [Newsletter #335][news335 dleq] and [Recap
  #327][recap327 dleq]).

- [BIPs #1396][] updates [BIP78][]’s [payjoin][topic payjoin] specification to
  align with [BIP174][]’s [PSBT][topic psbt] specification, resolving a previous
  conflict. In BIP78, a receiver previously deleted UTXO data after completing
  its inputs, even if the sender needed the data. With this update, UTXO data is
  now retained.

{% include snippets/recap-ad.md when="2025-01-21 15:30" %}
{% include references.md %}
{% include linkers/issues.md v=2 issues="3792,1789,1687,1396,2936" %}

> [ldk 0.1]: https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/releases/tag/v0.1

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[ldk v0.1]: https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/releases/tag/v0.1
```
